# Roman Urdu Sentiment Analysis 
This project aims to classify customer feedback of roman Urdu on E-commerce websites into three basic classes; positive, negative, and neutral. We have used SVM with Urdu stemming. Currently, the paper is under review.  The dataset and other related configurations and details will be shared on the same link once the paper is accepted for the publications.  The online demo using Flask is also deployed which can be accessed online using http://sa-svm.mlcs.xyz/;  It will redirect to other another site with public IP. Since, it is under development, therefore, we are using IP address, later it will be permanently hosted on above mentioned link.

To run this code, make sure that sci-kit learn have the same version mentioned in requirements.txt to avoid any version conflicts.

The abstract of the paper is given below:

<i> <p> In natural language processing, sentiment analysis task has widely been studied. However, Roman Urdu sentiment analysis yet requires more attention from peer-researchers. This article presents a survey of different machine learning (ML) and deep learning approaches for the sentiment analysis task of Roman Urdu e-commerce product reviews and propose the best performing scheme. The primary objective of this study is to investigate the State-of-the-art methods for the sentiment analysis of text data which is quite very informal in nature and needs to be lexically normalized. To mitigate this challenge, we propose a fine-tuned Support Vector Machine (SVM) powered by Roman Urdu Stemmer. The creation of the Roman Urdu stemmer is aimed at standardizing the text so as to minimize the level of complexity. Moreover, we have also applied the rule based lexical normalization to further minimize the complexity of the text. The efficacy of our proposed model is also empirically evaluated with diverse experimental configurations, so as to fine-tune the hyper-parameters and achieve superior performance. Moreover, a series of experiments are conducted on diverse machine learning and deep learning models to compare the performance with our proposed model. The Roman Urdu sentiment analysis is categorized based on the user reviews into negative (0), positive (1), and neutral (2) classes. We also introduced the largest dataset on Roman Urdu, i.e., Roman Urdu E-Commerce Dataset (RUECD), which contains 26K+ user reviews annotated by the group of experts. The RUECD is a very challenging and the largest dataset available of Roman Urdu, the experiments show that the newly generated dataset is quite challenging and requires more attention of the peer researchers for Roman Urdu sentiment analysis. </p> </i>
